# SEEED T1000E User Tips

The [SEEED T1000E](https://muzi.works/products/seeed-t1000e) is a high-performance tracker designed for Meshtastic, as small as a credit card, effortlessly fitting in your pocket or attaching to your assets. It embeds Semtech's LR1110 (Supports 863-928 MHz range), Nordic's nRF52840, and Mediatek's AG3335 GPS module, providing Meshtastic users with a high-precision, low-power positioning and communication solution.

## Custom Ringtones

[YouTube Breakdown by Anas Kuzechie](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lRLc0r5BBko)

The T1000E has a user-configurable ringtone that uses [Ring Tone Text Transfer Language (RTTTL)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ring_Tone_Text_Transfer_Language). The default ringtone looks like this:

`24:d=32,o=5,b=565:f6,p,f6,4p,p,f6,p,f6,2p,p,b6,p,b6,p,b6,p,b6,p,b,p,b,p,b,p,b,p,b,p,b,p,b,p,b,1p.,2p.,p`

That ringtone has 2 parts; a header that defines the defaults and the actual ringtone notes. The header looks like this:
- `24` - Name/identifier for the ringtone
- `d=32` - Default note duration (32nd note)
- `o=5` - Default octave (5th octave)
- `b=565` - Beats per minute (tempo = 565 BPM, which is quite fast)

After the header, you have a list of notes to play. Notes are comma-separated and include 4 parameters:
- duration
- pitch
- octave
- dotted-duration

If we break down the first 6 notes in the default ringtone as an example, you'll see this:
- f6 - F note in 6th octave (duration defaults to 32nd note)
- 4p - Pause/rest lasting 1/4 the default duration
- 2p - Pause/rest lasting 1/2 the default duration
- 1p. - Pause lasting 1 beat with dot (1.5x duration)
- b6 - B note in 6th octave
- b - B note in default octave (5th)

The only required parameter for each note is the pitch. If a parameter is not defined, it will assume the default as defined in the header.

### Meshtastic Notification Config

Be sure to set the `Nag Timeout` to a lower number, otherwise it'll pester you over and over again until you press the button on the T1000E. If you set it to `0`, it will only play the notification once.

However if you want the ringtone to constantly go off, you may want to set it to something higher like 60 seconds. That would allow you to setup your own "help me find my node" tracking audio beacon. The only way to stop the ringtone is to press the button on the front of the node just above the speaker.

### Nokia Composer

Here's a good website that allows you to play with RTTTL strings and have them playback for you in the browser. Plus it has some fun examples baked into the page.

[Nokia Composer](https://eddmann.com/nokia-composer-web/)

### Examples

Legend of Zelda Get Item
`item:d=16,o=5,b=120:g,c6,d6,2g6`

Super Mario Theme (Shortened)
`mario:d=4,o=5,b=100:16e6,16e6,32p,8e6,16c6,8e6,8g6,8p,8g`

Mario Coin
`coin:d=8,o=6,b=200:b,e7`

Mario Power Up
`powerup:d=16,o=5,b=200:g,a,b,c6,d6,e6,f#6,g6,a6,b6,2c7`

Nokia Ringtone
`nokia:d=4,o=5,b=180:8e6,8d6,f#,g#,8c#6,8b,d,e,8b,8a,c#,e,2a`

Morse Code CQ
`cq:d=16,o=6,b=120:8c,p,c,p,8c,p,c,4p,8c,p,8c,p,c,p,8c,8p`
